Every time we get a new order from the sales department, first, one of my masters
determines the necessary parts and quantities as well as the delivery date. Once that
information is present, it has to be entered into our production planning system (PPS).
It optimizes our production processes and creates possibly uniform work packages so
that the setup times are minimized. Besides, it creates a list of parts to be procured.
Unfortunately it is not coupled correctly to our Enterprise Resource Planning system
(ERP), so the data must be transferred manually. By the way, that is the second step.
Once all the data is present, we need to decide whether any parts are missing and must
be procured or if this is not necessary. Once production is scheduled to start, we receive
a notice from the system and an employee takes care of the implementation. Finally, the
order will be checked again for its quality.
The first step is to determine contact details of potential customers. This can be achieved
in several ways. Sometimes, we buy details for cold calls, sometimes, our marketing staff
participates in exhibitions and sometimes, you just happen to know somebody, who is
interested in the product. Then we start calling the customer. That is done by the call
center staff. They are determining the contact person and the budget which would be
available for the project. Of course, asking the customer whether he is generally interested
is also important. If this is not the case, we leave him alone, except if the potential project
budget is huge. Then the head of development personally tries to acquire the customer.
If the customer is interested in the end, the next step is a detailed online presentation.
It is given either by a sales representative or by a pre-sales employee in case of a more
technical presentation. Afterwards we are waiting for the customer to come back to us. If
we are not contacted within 2 weeks, a sales representative is calling the customer. The
last phase is the creation of a quotation.